README.md, before:

# JavaScript Arrays

## Objectives

- Explain what an array is and why we use it
- Create an array
- Add an element to an array
- Access an element in an array
- Delete an element from an array

## Instructions

You'll be coding along in `arrays.js`. There are tests to run to make sure you're on the right track.

## Introduction

Let's say that we have a list of ingredients for a kickin' grilled cheese (code along in console):

``` javascript
var ingredient1 = "bread"
var ingredient2 = "mild cheese"
var ingredient3 = "sharp cheese"
var ingredient4 = "butter"
var ingredient5 = "tomato"
var ingredient6 = "garlic"
```

But now what if we want to make a tomato sauce? Well, we already have garlic and tomato — but we have no idea what recipe they belong to. Pretty soon, we'll have a hard time keeping our ingredients safe, and we'd end up with bread in our tomato sauce.

![noooooooo](http://i.giphy.com/fIyBQtxwwZYhq.gif)

This is an admittedly contrived example, but it goes to show that we can't just put everything in a variable and hope to remember what order things should go in. It also shows that sometimes it would be helpful to be able to group like items together.

In JavaScript, we can group like items in an object (well, everything in JavaScript is an object — but more on that some other time) called an _array_. An array is an ordered list of items (called "elements" of the array) separated by commas.

Arrays look like this: `[1, 2, 3]`.

Or like this:

``` javascript
var grilledCheeseIngredients = [
  'bread',
  'mild cheese',
  'sharp cheese',
  'butter',
  'tomato',
  'garlic'
]

var tomatoSauceIngredients = [
  'tomato',
  'garlic',
  'olive oil',
  'basil',
  'oregano'
]
```

## Creation

JavaScript arrays can contain all types of values and they can be of mixed types. You can create arrays in two different ways, the most common of which is to list values in a pair of square brackets. These are called **array literals**.

```javascript
var myArray = [element0, element1, ..., elementN];
```

Examples:

```javascript
var primeNumbers = [2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, 19, 23, 29, 31, 37];

var tvShows = ["game of thrones", "true detective", "the good wife", "empire"];

var weirdGreeting = [ "he", 110, "w", 0, "r", 1, "d" ];

var empty = [];
```

The Array constructor is another approach to making a new array.

```javascript
var evenNumbers = new Array();
```

Arrays are _ordered_, meaning that the elements in them will always appear in the same order. The array `[1, 1, 2]`, is different from the array `[1, 2, 1]`.

**TODO**: In `arrays.js`, define a variable called `chocolateBars`. Its value should be an array of the strings `snickers`, `hundred grand`, `kitkat`, and `skittles`.

## Adding an Element

JavaScript allows us to `push` elements onto the end of an array:

```javascript
var superheroines = ["catwoman", "she-hulk", "mystique"];

superheroines.push("wonder woman");
// superheroines is now ["catwoman", "she-hulk", "mystique", "wonder woman"]
```

We can also `unshift` elements onto the beginning of an array:

``` javascript
var cities = ["New York", "San Francisco"]

cities.unshift("Philadelphia")

// cities is now ["Philadelphia", "New York", "San Francisco"]
```

These actions _change_ the underlying array — in other words, they **mutate** its value.

Most modern browsers (Chrome, FireFox, and Safari) support what is called the **spread operator** — it's three dots in a row: `...`. When used with an array, it _spreads out_ the array's contents.

We can use the spread operator to create a new array in place, rather than modifying the original one. Let's try it!

``` javascript
var cities = ["New York", "San Francisco"]

["Philadelphia", ...cities] // ["Philadelphia", "New York", "San Francisco"]

cities // ["New York", "San Francisco"]
```

Whoa! Did you see that? Our cities array was untouched when we used the spread operator: `...cities`. We can do the same at the end of the array:

``` javascript
var cities = ["New York", "San Francisco"]

[...cities, "Philadelphia"] // ["New York", "San Francisco", "Philadelphia"]
```

To preserve the new array, we need to assign it to a variable:

``` javascript
var cities = ["New York", "San Francisco"]

// we can assign it to the existing `cities` variable
cities = ["Philadelphia", ...cities]

// but if we have a const
const cats = ["Milo", "Garfield"]

// we need a new variable:
const moreCats = ["Felix", ...cats]
```

While we _can_ add elements to an array directly at specific indexes

``` javascript
var myArray = [1, 2, 3]

myArray[5] = 5

myArray // [1, 2, 3, undefined, undefined, 5]
```

it's best not to. We should treat arrays as ordered lists of information that can be **any length**, so updating a specific index should feel like a weird thing to do. Moreover, adding elements directly inserts `undefined` (as demonstrated above) if we also need to increase the array's length, which can lead to unexpected behavior.

**TODO**: In `arrays.js`, define two functions, `addElementToBeginningOfArray` and `destructivelyAddElementToBeginningOfArray`. Both functions take two parameters, an array and an element to add to the beginning of the array, and both functions should add the element to the beginning of the array and then return the whole array. The destructive function, `destructivelyAddElementToBeginningOfArray`, should alter the original array that's passed in; `addElementToBeginningOfArray`, on the other hand, should return a new array **and not modify the original**.

**TODO**: Define two more functions, `addElementToEndOfArray` and `destructivelyAddElementToEndOfArray`. These functions also take two arguments, an array and an element to add to the end of the array. `addElementToEndOfArray` **should not** alter the original array; `destructivelyAddElementToEndOfArray` **should** alter the original array.

## Accessing an Element

You can get elements out of arrays if you know their index. Array elements' indexes start at 0 and increment by 1, so the first element's index is `0`, the second element's index is `1`, the third element's is `2`, etc.

```javascript
var entrepreneurs = ["Elizabeth Holmes", "Laurene Powell Jobs", "Arianna Huffington"];

// the line below will print the string "Elizabeth Holmes"
console.log(entrepreneurs[0]);

// the code below will print the string "Arianna Huffington is the co-founder and editress-in-chief of The Huffington Post"
var bio = " is the co-founder and editress-in-chief of The Huffington Post";
console.log(entrepreneurs[2] + bio);

// the line below will return undefined
entrepreneurs[9];
```

**TODO**: Define a function in `arrays.js` called `accessElementInArray`. The function should accept an array and an index and return the element at that index.

## Removing an Element

### From the Beginning of an Array

To remove an element from the beginning of an array, we can use the `shift` method:

``` javascript
const days = ["Monday", "Tuesday", "Wednesday"]

days.shift() // returns the removed element, in this case "Monday"

days // ["Tuesday", "Wednesday"]
```

As with `unshift`, this method is _destructive_; it **mutates** the underlying array.

**TODO**: Define a function in `arrays.js` called `destructivelyRemoveElementFromBeginningOfArray` that takes an array as its only argument and removes the first element. Your function should then return the entire array, and it **should** mutate the array.

Because we tend to want to avoid destruction, there is also a way to remove the first element from an array without changing the underlying array: we can use the `slice` method.

[`slice`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/slice) does just what its name implies: it takes a slice from its array. The first argument specifies where the slice starts, and the second argument specifies where it ends. If there is no second argument, the slice goes from the first argument (the start) to the end of the array. This means removing the first element is as simple as `slice(1)`.

``` javascript
var cats = ["Milo", "Garfield", "Otis"]

cats.slice(1) // ["Garfield", "Otis"]

cats // ["Milo", "Garfield", "Otis"]
```

As with other non-destructive methods, we need to assign the results to a new variable to save our changes:

``` javascript
var cats = ["Milo", "Garfield", "Otis"]

cats = cats.slice(1) // ["Garfield", "Otis"]

cats // ["Garfield", "Otis"]
```

`slice` is also handy if we know we want the last `n` elements of an array: simply pass it an negative index.

``` javascript
var cats = ["Milo", "Garfield", "Otis"]

// get the last 2 cats
cats.slice(-2) // ["Garfield", "Otis"]

// get the last 1 cat
cats.slice(-1) // ["Otis"]
```

**TODO**: Define a function in `arrays.js` called `removeElementFromBeginningOfArray` that takes an array as its only argument and removes the first element. Your function should then return the entire array, and it **should not** mutate the underlying array.

### From the End of an Array

To remove an element from the end of an array, we can use the `pop` method:

``` javascript
var iceCreams = ["chocolate", "vanilla", "raspberry"]

iceCreams.pop() // returns the removed element, in this case "raspberry"

iceCreams // ["chocolate", "vanilla"]
```

As with `push`, this method is _destructive_; it **mutates** the underlying array.

**TODO**: Define a function in `arrays.js` called `destructivelyRemoveElementFromEndOfArray` that takes an array as its only argument and removes the last element. Your function should return the entire array, and it **should** mutate the array.

We can use `slice` to perform the above action without changing the underlying array. It takes a bit more work than removing the first element, since we want the slice from index `0` (remember, the first element is at index `0`!) to the end. Hmmmm — what property do arrays have that can help us? `length`!

``` javascript
var iceCreams = ["chocolate", "vanilla", "raspberry"]

iceCreams.slice(0, iceCreams.length - 1) // ["chocolate", "vanilla"]

iceCreams // ["chocolate", "vanilla", "raspberry"]
```

**TODO**: Define a function in `arrays.js` called `removeElementFromEndOfArray` that takes an array as its only argument and removes the last element. Your function should return the array without the last element, and it **should not** mutate the original array.

### From the Middle of an Array

Removing an element from the middle of an array in JavaScript is a bit trickier than removing an element from the beginning or end. We have the `splice` method, which takes an index in the array as its first argument, the number of elements to remove as its second argument, and any number of elements to add as any arguments after the second. All arguments are optional, but with no arguments, `splice()` returns an empty array and does nothing to the target array.

It might be helpful to refer to [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/splice) to check out their examples, in addition to our examples here.

``` javascript
let items = [1, 2, 3, 4]

// this will remove everything after index 1 (inclusive)
// it returns the removed items: [2, 3, 4]
items.splice(1)

items // [1]

items = [1, 2, 3, 4]

 // "at index 1, remove 1 item"
 // it returns the removed item(s): [2]
items.splice(1, 1)

items // [1, 3, 4]

items = [1, 2, 3, 4]

// "at index 1, remove 1 item and add 6 and add 7"
// it returns the removed items: [2]
// and adds the items to add starting at the removal index
items.splice(1, 1, 6, 7)

items // [1, 6, 7, 3, 4]
```

As we noted above, adding elements at specific indexes in the middle of an array _feels_ weird — it's intentionally difficult to do, as doing so with objects (where we have keys instead of sequential indexes) is much more natural.

**BONUS**

We can use `slice`, combined with the spread operator, to make removing from the middle of an array much easier.

``` javascript
var items = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]

// let's remove the third element

// a slice from the start up to but not including index 2 (the third element)
// and a slice from index 3 to the end
[...items.slice(0, 2), ...items.slice(3)] // [1, 2, 4, 5]
```

Play around with this a bit until it makes sense. It's the trickiest thing that you've encountered so far, so don't sweat it if it takes a little bit to sink in!

## Array Wackiness

### Array indexes aren't exactly what they seem to be

If you had to guess, would you say that array indexes are *numbers* or *strings*? Think about it for a second, then read on.

Array indexes are actually _strings_, even though we commonly refer to them as numbers. But you don't have to take my word for it: try typing `Object.keys([1, 2, ,3])` in your console and see what comes back.

Ultimately, this means array indexes are strings that can be accessed by array-style notation using brackets, and the numbers will be *coerced* into strings when they're needed under the hood.  In a console, try accessing an index using a string to see for yourself:

```javascript
var arr = ["under", "the", "hood"];

arr[0];  // "under"
arr['0']; // "under"
arr[02]; // 02 the number *is* 2, so you get "hood"
arr['02']: // '02' the string is *not* 2, so you get undefined
```

This little tidbit might come in handy if you ever try to assign a value to an array index by using a string unintentionally.  Like, say, by getting your array positions from a zero-filled formatted list of numbers which you store as strings, then using those strings to access array elements.

Or by indexing an array with a variable whose contents don't in any way represent a number--like typing `myArray['bonobo monkey'] = 27`.

You'll get no complaints, because rather than adding an index to the array, you're adding a *property*.  Speaking of which...

### We can add properties to arrays

In JavaScript, everything is ultimately an object. We'll explore more about what that means when we cover objects, but for now, know that this means that we can add _properties_ to just about anything, including arrays.

A property is a named piece of information. They're _kind of_ like variables (don't go too far with that analogy) but we can only get that information with reference to the property owner.

What makes arrays special, then? Arrays keep track of how many elements they have in them via the `length` property: `[1, 2, 3].length // 3`. `length` doesn't work like other keys/indexes in objects/arrays — it updates automatically, and if we change it, we change the whole array.

``` javascript
var myArray = [1, 2, 3]

myArray.length // 3

myArray.length = 1

myArray // [1] (!!!)
```

It's important to remember that arrays in JavaScript are kind of wonky. You can assign properties to them:

```js
var array = [1, 2, 3];

array.myProperty = "I'm a property!";
```

Which can lead to weird behavior:

```js
array;
// [1, 2, 3];

// Where did our property go?
array.myProperty;
// "I'm a property!";

array.length;
// 3 - Would you have expected 3 or 4?
```

We don't tend to do these kinds of things on purpose, but it's important to be aware that they can happen so that you have a good sense of where to look if/when strange bugs start to appear.

## Resources

* [MDN - Arrays](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array)
* [Codecademy - Arrays](http://www.codecademy.com/glossary/javascript)

<p class='util--hide'>View <a href='https://learn.co/lessons/javascript-arrays'>JavaScript Arrays</a> on Learn.co and start learning to code for free.</p>

Commit message:

automatically backed up by learn

README.md, after:

# JavaScript Arrays

## Objectives

- Explain what an array is and why we use it
- Create an array
- Add an element to an array
- Access an element in an array
- Delete an element from an array

## Instructions

You'll be coding along in `arrays.js`. There are tests to run to make sure you're on the right track.

## Introduction

Let's say that we have a list of ingredients for a kickin' grilled cheese (code along in console):

``` javascript
var ingredient1 = "bread"
var ingredient2 = "mild cheese"
var ingredient3 = "sharp cheese"
var ingredient4 = "butter"
var ingredient5 = "tomato"
var ingredient6 = "garlic"
```

But now what if we want to make a tomato sauce? Well, we already have garlic and tomato — but we have no idea what recipe they belong to. Pretty soon, we'll have a hard time keeping our ingredients safe, and we'd end up with bread in our tomato sauce.

![noooooooo](http://i.giphy.com/fIyBQtxwwZYhq.gif)

This is an admittedly contrived example, but it goes to show that we can't just put everything in a variable and hope to remember what order things should go in. It also shows that sometimes it would be helpful to be able to group like items together.

In JavaScript, we can group like items in an object (well, everything in JavaScript is an object — but more on that some other time) called an _array_. And array is an ordered list of items (called "elements" of the array) separated by commas.

Arrays look like this: `[1, 2, 3]`.

Or like this:

``` javascript
var grilledCheeseIngredients = [
  'bread',
  'mild cheese',
  'sharp cheese',
  'butter',
  'tomato',
  'garlic'
]

var tomatoSauceIngredients = [
  'tomato',
  'garlic',
  'olive oil',
  'basil',
  'oregano'
]
```

## Creation

JavaScript arrays can contain any types of values and they can be of mixed types. You can create arrays in two different ways, the most common of which is to list values in a pair of square brackets. These are called **array literals**.

```javascript
var myArray = [element0, element1, ..., elementN];
```

Examples:

```javascript
var primeNumbers = [2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, 19, 23, 29, 31, 37];

var tvShows = ["game of thrones", "true detective", "the good wife", "empire"];

var weirdGreeting = [ "he", 110, "w", 0, "r", 1, "d" ];

var empty = [];
```

The Array constructor is another approach to making a new array.

```javascript
var evenNumbers = new Array();
```

Arrays are _ordered_, meaning that the elements in them will always appear in the same order. The array `[1, 1, 2]`, is different from the array `[1, 2, 1]`.

**TODO**: In `arrays.js`, define a variable called `chocolateBars`. Its value should be an array of the strings `snickers`, `hundred grand`, `kitkat`, and `skittles`.

## Adding an Element

JavaScript allows us to `push` elements onto the end of an array:

```javascript
var superheroines = ["catwoman", "she-hulk", "mystique"];

superheroines.push("wonder woman");
// superheroines is now ["catwoman", "she-hulk", "mystique", "wonder woman"]
```

We can also `unshift` elements onto the beginning of an array:

``` javascript
var cities = ["New York", "San Francisco"]

cities.unshift("Philadelphia")

// cities is now ["Philadelphia", "New York", "San Francisco"]
```

These actions _change_ the underlying array — in other words, they **mutate** its value.

Most modern browsers (Chrome, FireFox, and Safari) support what is called the **spread operator** — it's three dots in a row: `...`. When used with an array, it _spreads out_ the array's contents.

We can use the spread operator to create a new array in place, rather than modifying the original one. Let's try it!

``` javascript
var cities = ["New York", "San Francisco"]

["Philadelphia", ...cities] // ["Philadelphia", "New York", "San Francisco"]

cities // ["New York", "San Francisco"]
```

Whoa! Did you see that? Our cities array was untouched when we used the spread operator: `...cities`. We can do the same at the end of the array:

``` javascript
var cities = ["New York", "San Francisco"]

[...cities, "Philadelphia"] // ["New York", "San Francisco", "Philadelphia"]
```

To preserve the new array, we need to assign it to a variable:

``` javascript
var cities = ["New York", "San Francisco"]

// we can assign it to the existing `cities` variable
cities = ["Philadelphia", ...cities]

// but if we have a const
const cats = ["Milo", "Garfield"]

// we need a new variable:
const moreCats = ["Felix", ...cats]
```

While we _can_ add elements to an array directly at specific indexes

``` javascript
var myArray = [1, 2, 3]

myArray[5] = 5

myArray // [1, 2, 3, undefined, undefined, 5]
```

it's best not to. We should treat arrays as ordered lists of information that can be **any length**, so updating a specific index should feel like a weird thing to do. Moreover, adding elements directly inserts `undefined` (as demonstrated above) if we also need to increase the array's length, which can lead to unexpected behavior.

**TODO**: In `arrays.js`, define two functions, `addElementToBeginningOfArray` and `destructivelyAddElementToBeginningOfArray`. Both functions take two parameters, an array and an element to add to the beginning of the array, and both functions should add the element to the beginning of the array and then return the whole array. The destructive function, `destructivelyAddElementToBeginningOfArray`, should alter the original array that's passed in; `addElementToBeginningOfArray`, on the other hand, should return a new array **and not modify the original**.

**TODO**: Define two more functions, `addElementToEndOfArray` and `destructivelyAddElementToEndOfArray`. These functions also take two arguments, an array and an element to add to the end of the array. `addElementToEndOfArray` **should not** alter the original array; `destructivelyAddElementToEndOfArray` **should** alter the original array.

## Accessing an Element

You can get elements out of arrays if you know their index. Array elements' indexes start at 0 and increment by 1, so the first element's index is `0`, the second element's index is `1`, the third element's is `2`, etc.

```javascript
var entrepreneurs = ["Elizabeth Holmes", "Laurene Powell Jobs", "Arianna Huffington"];

// the line below will print the string "Elizabeth Holmes"
console.log(entrepreneurs[0]);

// the code below will print the string "Arianna Huffington is the co-founder and editress-in-chief of The Huffington Post"
var bio = " is the co-founder and editress-in-chief of The Huffington Post";
console.log(entrepreneurs[2] + bio);

// the line below will return undefined
entrepreneurs[9];
```

**TODO**: Define a function in `arrays.js` called `accessElementInArray`. The function should accept an array and an index and return the element at that index.

**NOTE**: If you had to guess, would you say that array indexes are *numbers* or *strings*? Think about it for a second, then read on.

Array indexes are actually _strings_, even though we commonly refer to them as numbers. But you don't have to take my word for it: try typing `Object.keys([1, 2, ,3])` in your console and see what comes back.

## Removing an Element

### From the Beginning of an Array

To remove an element from the beginning of an array, we can use the `shift` method:

``` javascript
const days = ["Monday", "Tuesday", "Wednesday"]

days.shift() // returns the removed element, in this case "Monday"

days // ["Tuesday", "Wednesday"]
```

As with `unshift`, this method is _destructive_; it **mutates** the underlying array.

**TODO**: Define a function in `arrays.js` called `destructivelyRemoveElementFromBeginningOfArray` that takes an array as its only argument and removes the first element. Your function should then return the entire array, and it **should** mutate the array.

Because we tend to want to avoid destruction, there is also a way to remove the first element from an array without changing the underlying array: we can use the `slice` method.

[`slice`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/slice) does just what its name implies: it takes a slice from its array. The first argument specifies where the slice starts, and the second argument specifies where it ends. If there is no second argument, the slice goes from the first argument (the start) to the end of the array. This means removing the first element is as simple as `slice(1)`.

``` javascript
var cats = ["Milo", "Garfield", "Otis"]

cats.slice(1) // ["Garfield", "Otis"]

cats // ["Milo", "Garfield", "Otis"]
```

As with other non-destructive methods, we need to assign the results to a new variable to save our changes:

``` javascript
var cats = ["Milo", "Garfield", "Otis"]

cats = cats.slice(1) // ["Garfield", "Otis"]

cats // ["Garfield", "Otis"]
```

`slice` is also handy if we know we want the last `n` elements of an array: simply pass it an negative index.

``` javascript
var cats = ["Milo", "Garfield", "Otis"]

// get the last 2 cats
cats.slice(-2) // ["Garfield", "Otis"]

// get the last 1 cat
cats.slice(-1) // ["Otis"]
```

**TODO**: Define a function in `arrays.js` called `removeElementFromBeginningOfArray` that takes an array as its only argument and removes the first element. Your function should then return the entire array, and it **should not** mutate the underlying array.

### From the End of an Array

To remove an element from the end of of an array, we can use the `pop` method:

``` javascript
var iceCreams = ["chocolate", "vanilla", "raspberry"]

iceCreams.pop() // returns the removed element, in this case "raspberry"

iceCreams // ["chocolate", "vanilla"]
```

As with `push`, this method is _destructive_; it **mutates** the underlying array.

**TODO**: Define a function in `arrays.js` called `destructivelyRemoveElementFromEndOfArray` that takes an array as its only argument and removes the last element. Your function should return the entire array, and it **should** mutate the array.

We can use `slice` to perform the above action without changing the underlying array. It takes a bit more work than removing the first element, since we want the slice from index `0` (remember, the first element is at index `0`!) to the end. Hmmmm — what property do arrays have that can help us? `length`!

``` javascript
var iceCreams = ["chocolate", "vanilla", "raspberry"]

iceCreams.slice(0, iceCreams.length - 1) // ["chocolate", "vanilla"]

iceCreams // ["chocolate", "vanilla", "raspberry"]
```

**TODO**: Define a function in `arrays.js` called `removeElementFromEndOfArray` that takes an array as its only argument and removes the last element. Your function should return the entire array, and it **should not** mutate the array.

### From the Middle of an Array

Removing an element from the middle of an array in JavaScript is a bit trickier than removing an element from the beginning or end. We have the `splice` method, which takes an index in the array as its first argument, the number of elements to remove as its second argument, and any number of elements to add as any arguments after the second. All arguments are optional, but with no arguments, `splice()` returns an empty array and does nothing to the target array.

It might be helpful to refer to [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/splice) to check out their examples, in addition to our examples here.

``` javascript
let items = [1, 2, 3, 4]

// this will remove everything after index 1 (inclusive)
// it returns the removed items: [2, 3, 4]
items.splice(1)

items // [1]

items = [1, 2, 3, 4]

 // "at index 1, remove 1 item"
 // it returns the removed item(s): [2]
items.splice(1, 1)

items // [1, 3, 4]

items = [1, 2, 3, 4]

// "at index 1, remove 1 item and add 6 and add 7"
// it returns the removed items: [2]
// and adds the items to add starting at the removal index
items.splice(1, 1, 6, 7)

items // [1, 6, 7, 3, 4]
```

As we noted above, adding elements at specific indexes in the middle of an array _feels_ weird — it's intentionally difficult to do, as doing so with objects (where we have keys instead of sequential indexes) is much more natural.

**BONUS**

We can use `slice`, combined with the spread operator, to make removing from the middle of an array much easier.

``` javascript
var items = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]

// let's remove the third element

// a slice from the start up to but not including index 2 (the third element)
// and a slice from index 3 to the end
[...items.slice(0, 2), ...items.slice(3)] // [1, 2, 4, 5]
```

Play around with this a bit until it makes sense. It's the trickiest thing that you've encountered so far, so don't sweat it if it takes a little bit to sink in!

## Array Wackiness

### We can add properties to arrays

In JavaScript, everything is ultimately an object. We'll explore more about what that means when we cover objects, but for now, know that this means that we can add _properties_ to just about anything, including arrays.

A property is a named piece of information. They're _kind of_ like variables (don't go too far with that analogy) but we can only get that information with reference to the property owner.

What makes arrays special, then? Arrays keep track of how many elements they have in them via the `length` property: `[1, 2, 3].length // 3`. `length` doesn't work like other keys/indexes in objects/arrays — it updates automatically, and if we change it, we change the whole array.

``` javascript
var myArray = [1, 2, 3]

myArray.length // 3

myArray.length = 1

myArray // [1] (!!!)
```

It's important to remember that arrays in JavaScript are kind of wonky. You can assign properties to them:

```js
var array = [1, 2, 3];

array.myProperty = "I'm a property!";
```

Which can lead to weird behavior:

```js
array;
// [1, 2, 3];

// Where did our property go?
array.myProperty;
// "I'm a property!";

array.length;
// 3 - Would you have expected 3 or 4?
```

We don't tend to do these kinds of things on purpose, but it's important to be aware that they can happen so that you have a good sense of where to look if/when strange bugs start to appear.

## Resources

* [MDN - Arrays](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array)
* [Codecademy - Arrays](http://www.codecademy.com/glossary/javascript)

<p data-visibility='hidden'>View <a href='https://learn.co/lessons/intro-to-arrays.js' title='JavaScript Arrays'>JavaScript Arrays</a> on Learn.co and start learning to code for free.</p>

<p class='util--hide'>View <a href='https://learn.co/lessons/javascript-arrays'>JavaScript Arrays</a> on Learn.co and start learning to code for free.</p>
